arasa vm. 217

beas Roxane, the fair daughter of his host, aud, attracted by her
heauty, marries her in dne form. (l'l) Alexander now directa his
thoughts tu the conquest of ludia. 'l'he army is supplemented by
³0,000 chosen Asiatios: the splendour of the arms of the Macedo·
uians is increased. Alexander wishes to receive from the Macedn-
nians tho honours due tu the sou of a god. In this attempt ho is
assisted by certain Greeks. (18) Ata greatfestivaLCleo, aSieiliau,
proposes tlrat theneeforward the king shall be honoured as a god
(19) Callisthenes, a native ot' Olynthus, censuras the deificatiorr of
a living man, aud ridicules the proposui ofCleo. (90) 'l'he Mace.
doninus approve oscalltstbcues' opinion, aud Alexander is forced
to give up his wish. He gives orders, however, for the Asiatica to
worship him, and is seriously angry with Polypercon for laughing
atthis. (21) Aoonspiracy is formed among the royal pagesagainst
the king’s life. Hermolaus and his belored Seruatus, its authors,
take into their confidence seven others; bnt a considerable tinae
clapses before it cau be ao arranged tlrat they shall have the walah
together at the hing's quartem. (99) 'l'he time for executing the
daed arrives: but at first, the king remains unusually long at sup
per, and even when he is retirin to bis munh, he rs induoed by
a woman, supposed to be a prophetase, to return to the banquet-
transmutarentur diffisi} all?
lind, however, no opportunity ofexecuting their design, but Alex-
ander* rewards them bandsomely for what he considers their kind
attention in waiting the whole night (93) One of the conspira-
tnrs reveals the matter to his brother, who hurries with him to
the king’s quartem. Alexanderis roused hom sleep, aud gives
orders for the apprehenion of the conspirators. (94) When brought
up sor trial, all confess. Hermolaus speaks, aud alleges the oauae
of their hutred of the king to have been his cruelty. (95) He ex·
pressos himself in bitter terma regarding the king‘s pride and
contempt of the manners of his fatherlaud. (96, 97, 98) Alexander
defends himself against the charges of cruelty and amnne, ex·
plains the reasons for his mild treatment of the Asiatica, and why

- he wished divine honours from them. He frees tha relatives ot*

the conspiratura from all responsibility for the crime. (99) The
criminals who have confessed are put to death by their comrades.
Callisthenes tuo, being accused of having instigated the youths
shores their tate. (30) Alexander commences his expedition to .
ludia, in the end of sprin 397 n. o. The rivers aud climate of the
country are described. (31) Its peculiar natural productionn the
customs of the inhabitants (39) The luxury of the lainga. (33)
The life of the wisa meu of the land is depicted. (³4) The nearest
Iudian princes give themselves up. Alexander intrusta the com..
mand of the main body ofthe armytollephaestion aad Perdiccas„ “·
arderiug them to advanoe direct to the Indus. Ho himself, with
Craterus, marchas through the mountaiuous district ou the north

 

